README.md, before:

# Synth

## Setup

`pnpm install && pnpm dev`

Get a convex api key for local development
`pnpm convex dev`

## TODO

- [ ] READ https://svelte-5-preview.vercel.app/docs/breaking-changes
- [ ] READ https://svelte.dev/blog/runes
- [ ] USE https://svelte-svg-icons.codewithshin.com/
- [ ] Model interactionSeq as chat with pluggable extra info before returning the object (streamObject or parallel tool calls??)

- [ ] DEV: How to implement consistent mocking (MSW?) and route testing declaratively as a middleware

  - maybe a mock/_ route. The middleware redirect /_ -> mock/\* and the return is pattern matched

- [ ] Decide on https://flaming.codes/en/posts/msw-in-sveltekit-for-local-development/ MSW
- [ ] Newer Svelte-Debug solutions? (like in Nuxt)
- [ ] Fix the dotenv issues with importing api keys (provider.ts)
- [ ] Fix prefixes $lib etc.
- [ ] Sketch out svelte store + routing
- [ ] Copy in your always used svelte actions

- [ ] Unify /tools to have consistent API. Decide what is a tool (exercise, multipleChoice) and what not (hints, solution?)
- [ ] Update UI with current progress inside a agentChain (ie. show the task without having to wait for the rest of the task->solution chain to finish)
- [ ] use Abstractions like https://docs.copilotkit.ai/reference/hooks/useCopilotReadable?
- [x] Just basic routing /seq/id/idx
- [ ] More routing: back, next, home buttons. Redirect to beginning of page wrong path
- [ ] Run a fetch and display in Component
- [ ] Svelte store (zustand copy)
- [ ] svelte html actions use:captureAction ? --> write to store? Can it add the {type:freeformtextinput}, spec:{freeformtextinput: {reducer: fn(bydefault: pickLatest), description, validation, isFinal?, isStep?, shouldInference--or use central point system??, or use AI to decide?}} etc?
- [ ] persist partial store (redirects/visited)
- [ ] api calls with example data (useObject)
- [ ] at login, or leave app: cleanUnseenInteractions?
- [ ] Convex integration
- [ ] what to do about multiple generated UIs on a page and interspersed forms? SPAs?
- [ ] think about /explore /read /paper /research and how these abstraction work there
- [ ] createForm function '<form>...' as claude prefill

**tool calling**

- [ ] handle generating and posting sequentially page/index++ vs. at once ([1,2,3][3,4,5][5,3,2]) for displaying on a single page
- [ ] pass down ultraspecific topic/difficulty prompts ... not params? configuration. This allows parallel generation without issues with interference/duplication of content
- [ ] tool dispatcher has all needed context? Will pass subset to each tool? Or intermediaries that sample more ?
  - the tools stay "dumb" in that they only receive a full prompt, no params? maybe. The full prompt = prompt + context +slots

## Tools/Plugins todo. Libs

- [ ] Make into tool: https://tympanus.net/codrops/2024/06/12/shape-lens-blur-effect-with-sdfs-and-webgl/
- [ ] Mathematica
- [ ] editorJS https://editorjs.io/
- [ ] https://svelte-ux.techniq.dev/docs/components/Table
- [ ] https://action-archive.vercel.app/actions/click-outside
- [ ] https://action-archive.vercel.app/actions/resize
- [ ] https://svelte-svg-icons.codewithshin.com/

## Overview

The goal is to make an AI-driven STEM learning platform that adapts content and interaction types to individual users, capturing and analyzing user actions to optimize the content and representations through generative UI.

### Key Features

- Adaptive AI-generated content and user interfaces
- Various interaction types: exercises, multiple-choice, binary-choice, timed tasks, minigames, simulations
- Spaced repetition system for optimized review
- Knowledge graph tracking individual components and user mastery
- Real-time content generation and selection
- Focus on reducing extraneous cognitive load
- Designed for self-learners

## Current Stack

- Svelte 5, Sveltekit 2
- Vercel ai sdk (after many hours wasted: I'm avoiding bug-ridden ai/rsc and sticking with core)
- DB: Convex
- Tailwind/shadcn
- Sentry, Posthog, Clerk

## States and Events

Although I decided against using xState FSMs for now. Here's an [approximate state diagram](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/8aaa1898-9a0f-43e2-9fdb-d6571eee716c?machineId=6033e05b-5b3f-4ecf-be0c-aba9251e5e22) for when a user starts a learning sequence.

1. Home Page:

   - Initial state
   - Users choose a learning sequence

2. Sequence Selection:

   - Users select a specific learning sequence

3. Interaction Presentation:

   - AI-generated content is presented to users

4. User Interaction:

   - Users interact with presented content
   - Submit answers or solutions

5. Review Solution:

   - Users review the solution
   - Select the part they failed at

6. Submission Analysis:

   - User's submission is ranked

7. Knowledge Update:

   - User's knowledge state is updated
   - Users can proceed to next interaction or IFF the sequence is ended, show summary screen

8. Summary Screen:
   - Summary of the learning sequence is shown

The state machine guides users through the learning platform, enabling:

- Sequence selection
- Content interaction
- Solution review
- And the System does knowledge inference under conditions (each step or after _n_ interations)

## FAQs

**Q: How does the AI determine the best type of interaction for content?**

A: The AI selects the most appropriate interaction type by considering:

- User's current knowledge state
- Previous interactions
- Nature of the content

**Q: Is all content generated in real-time?**

A: The system uses a hybrid approach:

1. Performs an embedding search on existing content
2. Generates new content if necessary

**Q: How are spaced repetition schedules implemented?**

A: Schedules are personalized for each user, featuring:

- Partial hierarchical reviews
- Content variation along different dimensions
- Interleaving of topics

**Q: What is the structure of the knowledge graph?**

A: The knowledge graph consists of:

- Granular "knowledge atoms"
- Potential hierarchy
- Representation of specific concepts or skills within STEM subjects

**Q: How much control do users have over their learning path?**

A: Users can:

- Choose between different sequences on the homepage
- AI determines specific content and interaction types within each sequence

**Q: Can you describe the system architecture?**

A: The system includes:

- An 'interactions' table storing:
  - Tasks
  - Solutions
  - Hints
  - User actions
- Full architecture is still in development

## Thinking about:

- using https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/agentic tools

Commit message:

feat: finally a good tool class. Plus schema->type setup

README.md, after:

# Synth

## Setup

`pnpm install && pnpm dev`

Get a convex api key for local development
`pnpm convex dev`

## Abstractions

- Orchestrator/Dispatcher takes in context and puts out params for the next interaction
- UI tools (multichoice, exercise) still have their own prompts and guidelines but the params (tone, topic, sequenceInfo, DB-context, misconceptions) are passed in as suffix
- This then gives the "tools" abstraction in that they have their own prompt, description, schema and description, a generate/execute - taking params - function for the orchestrator, examples
- Agent:Multistep, Tool: SingleStep

## TODO

**Markus**

- [x] generateObject should only live inside tools and have the LLM fallbacks abstract the model: value and defaults
- [ ] UseTool hook
- [ ] in "dev-mode" there should be a debug tagged to each schema
- [ ] .example outputs part of tools output (incl orchestrator... high quality params output)
- [ ] Model interactionSeq as chat with pluggable extra info before returning the object (streamObject or parallel tool calls??)
- [ ] solution/hint as a plugin?

---

- [ ] READ https://svelte-5-preview.vercel.app/docs/breaking-changes
- [ ] READ https://svelte.dev/blog/runes
- [ ] USE https://svelte-svg-icons.codewithshin.com/
- [ ] DEV: How to implement consistent mocking (MSW?) and route testing declaratively as a middleware

  - maybe a mock/_ route. The middleware redirect /_ -> mock/\* and the return is pattern matched

- [ ] Decide on https://flaming.codes/en/posts/msw-in-sveltekit-for-local-development/ MSW
- [ ] Newer Svelte-Debug solutions? (like in Nuxt)
- [ ] Fix the dotenv issues with importing api keys (provider.ts)
- [ ] Fix prefixes $lib etc.
- [ ] Sketch out svelte store + routing
- [ ] Copy in your always used svelte actions

- [ ] Unify /tools to have consistent API. Decide what is a tool (exercise, multipleChoice) and what not (hints, solution?)
- [ ] Update UI with current progress inside a agentChain (ie. show the task without having to wait for the rest of the task->solution chain to finish)
- [ ] use Abstractions like https://docs.copilotkit.ai/reference/hooks/useCopilotReadable?
- [x] Just basic routing /seq/id/idx
- [ ] More routing: back, next, home buttons. Redirect to beginning of page wrong path
- [ ] Run a fetch and display in Component
- [ ] Svelte store (zustand copy)
- [ ] svelte html actions use:captureAction ? --> write to store? Can it add the {type:freeformtextinput}, spec:{freeformtextinput: {reducer: fn(bydefault: pickLatest), description, validation, isFinal?, isStep?, shouldInference--or use central point system??, or use AI to decide?}} etc?
- [ ] persist partial store (redirects/visited)
- [ ] api calls with example data (useObject)
- [ ] at login, or leave app: cleanUnseenInteractions?
- [ ] Convex integration
- [ ] what to do about multiple generated UIs on a page and interspersed forms? SPAs?
- [ ] think about /explore /read /paper /research and how these abstraction work there
- [ ] createForm function '<form>...' as claude prefill

**tool calling**

- [ ] handle generating and posting sequentially page/index++ vs. at once ([1,2,3][3,4,5][5,3,2]) for displaying on a single page
- [ ] pass down ultraspecific topic/difficulty prompts ... not params? configuration. This allows parallel generation without issues with interference/duplication of content
- [ ] tool dispatcher has all needed context? Will pass subset to each tool? Or intermediaries that sample more ?
  - the tools stay "dumb" in that they only receive a full prompt, no params? maybe. The full prompt = prompt + context +slots

## Tools/Plugins todo. Libs

- [ ] Make into tool: https://tympanus.net/codrops/2024/06/12/shape-lens-blur-effect-with-sdfs-and-webgl/
- [ ] Mathematica
- [ ] editorJS https://editorjs.io/
- [ ] https://svelte-ux.techniq.dev/docs/components/Table
- [ ] https://action-archive.vercel.app/actions/click-outside
- [ ] https://action-archive.vercel.app/actions/resize
- [ ] https://svelte-svg-icons.codewithshin.com/

## Overview

The goal is to make an AI-driven STEM learning platform that adapts content and interaction types to individual users, capturing and analyzing user actions to optimize the content and representations through generative UI.

### Key Features

- Adaptive AI-generated content and user interfaces
- Various interaction types: exercises, multiple-choice, binary-choice, timed tasks, minigames, simulations
- Spaced repetition system for optimized review
- Knowledge graph tracking individual components and user mastery
- Real-time content generation and selection
- Focus on reducing extraneous cognitive load
- Designed for self-learners

## Current Stack

- Svelte 5, Sveltekit 2
- Vercel ai sdk (after many hours wasted: I'm avoiding bug-ridden ai/rsc and sticking with core)
- DB: Convex
- Tailwind/shadcn
- Sentry, Posthog, Clerk

## States and Events

Although I decided against using xState FSMs for now. Here's an [approximate state diagram](https://stately.ai/registry/editor/8aaa1898-9a0f-43e2-9fdb-d6571eee716c?machineId=6033e05b-5b3f-4ecf-be0c-aba9251e5e22) for when a user starts a learning sequence.

1. Home Page:

   - Initial state
   - Users choose a learning sequence

2. Sequence Selection:

   - Users select a specific learning sequence

3. Interaction Presentation:

   - AI-generated content is presented to users

4. User Interaction:

   - Users interact with presented content
   - Submit answers or solutions

5. Review Solution:

   - Users review the solution
   - Select the part they failed at

6. Submission Analysis:

   - User's submission is ranked

7. Knowledge Update:

   - User's knowledge state is updated
   - Users can proceed to next interaction or IFF the sequence is ended, show summary screen

8. Summary Screen:
   - Summary of the learning sequence is shown

The state machine guides users through the learning platform, enabling:

- Sequence selection
- Content interaction
- Solution review
- And the System does knowledge inference under conditions (each step or after _n_ interations)

## FAQs

**Q: How does the AI determine the best type of interaction for content?**

A: The AI selects the most appropriate interaction type by considering:

- User's current knowledge state
- Previous interactions
- Nature of the content

**Q: Is all content generated in real-time?**

A: The system uses a hybrid approach:

1. Performs an embedding search on existing content
2. Generates new content if necessary

**Q: How are spaced repetition schedules implemented?**

A: Schedules are personalized for each user, featuring:

- Partial hierarchical reviews
- Content variation along different dimensions
- Interleaving of topics

**Q: What is the structure of the knowledge graph?**

A: The knowledge graph consists of:

- Granular "knowledge atoms"
- Potential hierarchy
- Representation of specific concepts or skills within STEM subjects

**Q: How much control do users have over their learning path?**

A: Users can:

- Choose between different sequences on the homepage
- AI determines specific content and interaction types within each sequence

**Q: Can you describe the system architecture?**

A: The system includes:

- An 'interactions' table storing:
  - Tasks
  - Solutions
  - Hints
  - User actions
- Full architecture is still in development

## Thinking about:

- using https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/agentic tools
